feature: radio field (#313)
avo-hq/docs.avohq.io: docs/3.0/fields/radio.md

---
version: '3.15.0'
license: community
---

# Radio

<Image src="/assets/img/fields/radio.png" width="425" height="87" alt="Radio field" />

The `Radio` field is used to render radio buttons. It's useful when only one value can be selected in a given options group.

### Field declaration example
Below is an example of declaring a `radio` field for a role:

```ruby
field :role,
  as: :radio,
  name: "User role",
  options: {
    admin: "Administrator",
    manager: "Manager",
    writer: "Writer"
  }
```

<Option name="`options`">

A `Hash` representing the options that should be displayed in the radio buttons.

The keys represent the value that will be persisted and the values are the visible labels.

#### Default value

Empty `Hash`.

```ruby
{}
```

#### Possible values

Any `Hash`. Example:

```ruby
{
  admin: "Administrator",
  manager: "Manager",
  writer: "Writer"
}
```

> </Option>

Reviewer: Let's mention about the options being executed within `Avo::ExecutionContext` and that options can be passed as a Proc with access to resource record etc... Like here https://docs.avohq.io/3.0/actions.html#actions-authorization

Reviewer 2: @thiagoyoussef and @Paul-Bob.

Avo follows [Rails' way of declaring options](https://apidock.com/rails/ActionView/Helpers/FormOptionsHelper/options_for_select) where the label is the key of the hash and the id is the value of the hash.
I know, I don't agree with it, but it is what it is.

Can you please check and see that we use the same way going forward on select and radio fields?

Quite thought: Maybe we switch them in Avo 4?

Reviewer 2: You're right. Let's leave it like that.

---
version: '3.15.0'
license: community
---

# Radio

<Image src="/assets/img/fields/radio.png" width="425" height="87" alt="Radio field" />

The `Radio` field is used to render radio buttons. It's useful when only one value can be selected in a given options group.

### Field declaration example
Below is an example of declaring a `radio` field for a role:

```ruby
field :role,
  as: :radio,
  name: "User role",
  options: {
    admin: "Administrator",
    manager: "Manager",
    writer: "Writer"
  }
```

<Option name="`options`">

> The `options` attribute accepts either a `Hash` or a proc, allowing the incorporation of custom logic. Within this block, you gain access to all attributes of [`Avo::ExecutionContext`](../execution-context) along with the `action`, `resource`, and `view`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `options` attribute accepts either a `Hash` or a proc, allowing the incorporation of custom logic. Within this block, you gain access to all attributes of [`Avo::ExecutionContext`](../execution-context) along with the `record`, `resource`, `view` and `field`.
```
